



Network Working Group                                        H. Birkholz
Internet-Draft                                            Fraunhofer SIT
Intended status: Informational                                M. Wiseman
Expires: February 12, 2018                            GE Global Research
                                                           H. Tschofenig
                                                                ARM Ltd.
                                                         August 11, 2017


            Reference Terminology for Attestation Procedures
             draft-birkholz-attestation-terminology-latest

Abstract

   This document is intended to illustrate and remediate the impedance
   mismatch of terms related to attestation procedures used in different
   domains today.  New terms defined by this document provide a
   consolidated basis to support future work on attestation procedures
   in the IETF and beyond.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at http://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on February 12, 2018.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2017 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
   (http://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
   publication of this document.  Please review these documents
   carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with respect
   to this document.  Code Components extracted from this document must



Birkholz, et al.        Expires February 12, 2018               [Page 1]

Internet-Draft              term-attestation                 August 2017


   include Simplified BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of
   the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without warranty as
   described in the Simplified BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
     1.1.  Requirements notation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
   2.  Essential Remote Attestation Roles  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
   3.  Computing Context . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
     3.1.  Formal Semantic Relationships . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
     3.2.  Characteristics of a computing context  . . . . . . . . .   6
   4.  Computing Context Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
   5.  Types of Root of Trust (ROT)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
   6.  Nested Computing Contexts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
   7.  Freshness Types . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
   8.  Attestation Workflow  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
   9.  Reference Use Cases . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
     9.1.  The Lying Endpoint Problem  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
     9.2.  Who am I a talking to?  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
   10. Trustworthiness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
   11. Remote Attestation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
     11.1.  Building Block Terms . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
   12. IANA considerations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
   13. Security Considerations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
   14. Acknowledgements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
   15. Change Log  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
   16. References  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
     16.1.  Normative References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
     16.2.  Informative References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
   Authors' Addresses  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16

1.  Introduction

   Over the years, the term attestation has been used in multiple
   contexts and multiple scopes and therefore accumulated various
   connotations with slightly different semantic meaning.

   In order to better understand and grasp the intend and meaning of
   specific attestation procedures in the security area - including the
   requirements that are addressed by them - this document provides an
   overview of existing work, its background, and common terminology.
   As the contribution, from that state-of-the-art a set of terms that
   provides a stable basis for future work on attestation procedures in
   the IETF is derived.

   The primary application of attestation procedures is to increase the
   trust and confidence in the integrity of the characteristics and



Birkholz, et al.        Expires February 12, 2018               [Page 2]

Internet-Draft              term-attestation                 August 2017


   properties of a system entity that intends to provide data to other
   system entities remotely.  Hence, the most common application of
   attestation is Remote Attestation (RAT) and - in consequence - will
   be the most prominent topic of this reference terminology.

   How a system entity's characteristics are attested and which
   characteristics are actually chosen to be attested varies with the
   requirements of the use cases, or--in essence--depends on the risk
   that is intended to be mitigated via an attestation procedure.  It is
   important to note that the activity of attestation itself in
   principle only provides the evidence that proves integrity as a basis
   for further activities.  The resulting attestation procedure defines
   the greater semantic context about how the evidence is used and what
   an attestation procedures actually accomplishes; and what it cannot
   accomplish, correspondingly.  Hence, this document is also intended
   to provide a map of terms, concepts and applications that illustrate
   the ecosystem of current applications of attestation procedures.

   Illustrating the context and the semantics of attestation procedures
   in this document requires to include the domains of trust, trusted
   systems and the composite of trusted software running on trusted
   hardware (a trusted computing context).  A prominent example is
   Secure Boot; a procedure that composes a continuous chain of
   attestation activities that start with powering up a system entity
   and ultimately extend into user-space characteristics after boot-up
   in order to provide evidence that the composite a computing context
   composes is a trusted system.

   Before an adequate set of terms and definitions for the domain of
   attestation procedures can be defined, a general understanding and
   the global definitions of the "what" and the "how" have to be
   established.  In consequence, [enter final structure here].

   Please note that the time before the I-D deadline did not suffice to
   fill in all the references.  Most references are therefore still
   under construction.  The majority of definitions is still only
   originating from IETF work.  Future iterations will pull in more
   complementary definitions from other SDO (e.g.  Global Platform, TCG,
   etc.) and a general structure template to highlight semantic
   relationships and capable of resolving potential discrepancies will
   be introduced.  A section of context awareness will provide further
   insight on how attestation procedures are vital to ongoing work in
   the IETF (e.g.  I2NSF & tokbind).  The definitions in the section
   about Remote Attestation are basically self-describing in this
   version.  Additional explanatory text will be added to provide more
   context and coherence.





Birkholz, et al.        Expires February 12, 2018               [Page 3]

Internet-Draft              term-attestation                 August 2017


1.1.  Requirements notation

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC
   2119, BCP 14 [RFC2119].

2.  Essential Remote Attestation Roles

   The use of the term remote attestation always implies the involvement
   of at least two parties that each take on a specific role in
   corresponding procedures - the attestee role and the verifier role.
   Depending on the characteristics attested and the nature of the
   parties, information is exchanged via specific types of interconnects
   between them.  The type of interconnect ranges from GIO pins, to a
   bus, to the Internet, or from a direct physical connection, to a
   wireless association, to a world wide mesh of peers.  In other words,
   virtually every kind communication path can be used by the two roles.
   In fact, a single party can take on both roles at the same time, but
   there is only a limited use to this architecture.

   Attestee:  The role that designates the subject of the attestation.
      The provider of evidence.

   Verfifier:  The role that designates the appraiser of the attestee's
      attestation.  The consumer of evidence.

   Interconnect:  A channel of communication between attestee and
      verifier that enables the appraisal of evidence created by the
      attestee by a (remote) verifier.

3.  Computing Context

   This section introduces the term computing context in order to
   simplify the definition of attestation terminology.

   The number of approaches and solutions to create things that provide
   the same capabilities as a "simple physical device" continuously
   increases.  Examples include but are not limited to: the
   compartmentalization of physical resources, the separation of
   software instances with different dependencies in dedicated
   containers, and the nesting of virtual components via hardware-based
   and software-based solutions.

   In essence, every physical or logical system is a composite.  Every
   component in that composite is a potential computing context capable
   of taking on the roles of attestee or verifier.  The scope and
   application of these roles can range from continuous mutual



Birkholz, et al.        Expires February 12, 2018               [Page 4]

Internet-Draft              term-attestation                 August 2017


   attestation procedure, in which every component in a hierarchically
   structured composite that constitutes a single distinguishable
   endpoint on the management plane, to sporadic attestation of the
   integrity of an experiment in earth orbit.

   Analogously, the increasing number of features and functions start to
   blur the lines that are required to categorize each solution and
   approach precisely.  To address that increasingly difficult
   categorization, the term computing context defines the
   characteristics of the entities that can take on the role of an
   attestee - and in consequence the role of a verifier.  This approach
   is intended to provide a stable basis of definitions for future
   solutions that continuous to remain viable long-term.

   Computing context :  An umbrella term that combines the scope of the
      definitions of endpoint [ref NEA], device [ref 1ar], and thing
      [ref t2trg], including hardware-based and software-based sub-
      contexts that constitute independent and distinguishable slices of
      a computing context created by compartmentalization mechanisms,
      such as trusted execution environments or virtual network security
      function contexts.

3.1.  Formal Semantic Relationships

   The formal semantic relationship of a computing context and the
   definitions provided by RFC 4949 is a as follows.

   The scope of the term computing context encompasses:

   o  an information system,

   o  an object and in consequence a system component or a composite of
      system sub-components, and

   o  a system entity or a composite of system entities.

   Analogously, a sub-context is a subsystem and as with system
   components, computing contexts can be nested and therefore be
   physical system components or logical ("virtual") system
   (sub-)components.

   The formal semantic relationship is based on the following
   definitions from RFC 4949.

   (Information) System:  An organized assembly of computing and
      communication resources and procedures - i.e., equipment and
      services, together with their supporting infrastructure,
      facilities, and personnel - that create, collect, record, process,



Birkholz, et al.        Expires February 12, 2018               [Page 5]

Internet-Draft              term-attestation                 August 2017


      store, transport, retrieve, display, disseminate, control, or
      dispose of information to accomplish a specified set of functions.

   Object:  A system component that contains or receives information.

   Subsystem:  A collection of related system components that together
      perform a system function or deliver a system service.

   System Component:  A collection of system resources that (a) forms a
      physical or logical part of the system, (b) has specified
      functions and interfaces, and (c) is treated (e.g., by policies or
      specifications) as existing independently of other parts of the
      system.  (See: subsystem.)

      An identifiable and self-contained part of a Target of Evaluation.

   System Entity:  An active part of a system that has a specific set of
      capabilities.

3.2.  Characteristics of a computing context

   While the semantic relationships highlighted above constitute the
   fundamental basis to define the context of computing context, the
   following list of characteristics is intended to improve the
   intuitive understanding of the term and provide a better
   understanding of its meaning:

   A computing context:

   o  provides its own independent environment in regard to executing
      and running software,

   o  may create its own separate control plane state (by potentially
      interacting with other computing contexts),

   o  may be able to provide a dedicated management interface by which
      control plane behavior can be effected,

   o  can be identified uniquely and therefore reliably differentiated
      in a given scope,

   o  does not necessarily have to include a network interface with
      associated network addresses (as required, e.g. by the definition
      of an endpoint) - although it is likely to have (access to) one,
      and

   o  is capable of taking on the role of an attestee or a verifier.




Birkholz, et al.        Expires February 12, 2018               [Page 6]

Internet-Draft              term-attestation                 August 2017


   Examples include: a smartphone, a nested virtual machine, a
   virtualized firewall function running distributed on a cluster of
   physical and virtual nodes, a SFP+ interface module, or a TEE.

4.  Computing Context Identity

   The identity of a computing context provides the basis for Data
   Origin Authentication [RFC4949]}.  Confidence in the identity
   assurance level [NIST SP-800-63-3] or the assurance levels for
   identity authentication [RFC4949] impacts the confidence in the
   evidence an attestee provides.

   In the context of attestation, the authenticity and corresponding
   proof of integrity in respect to an identity are typically based on a
   secret that is only available to the individual subjects that
   maintain or try to create a trust relationship, e.g. an attestee or
   certificate authority (CA).  If a secret key, for example, is used to
   sign a public key such that the signed public key can be used as
   evidence, the shielding of the secrets involved is essential to the
   quality of confidence in the public key or the signature, and - in
   consequence - the evidence that constitutes the attested identity of
   the Computing Context.

   Shielded Secret:  A secret retained inside an atomic Component of a
      composite System Entity - composing a Computing Context - that can
      be used for operations based on the secret while the shielding of
      the secret is intended to inhibited voluntary or involuntary
      exposure of the secret itself.  The confidence in the shielding
      can be expressed, for example, via the security mechanisms
      described in the FIPS 140-2 security levels defined by the
      National Institute for Standards and Technology (NIST).
      Typically, shielded secrets are an essential part of a hardware
      root of trust (ROT) or hardware security modules (HSM),
      respectively.

   Identity:  [RFC4949] defines an Identity as "the collective aspect of
      a set of attribute values (i.e., a set of characteristics) by
      which a system user or other system entity is recognizable or
      known."  The term may be applied "to either a single entity or a
      set of entities."

      "Singular Identity": An identity that is registered for an entity
      that is one person or one process.

      "Group Identity": An identity that is registered for an entity
      that is a set of entities.





Birkholz, et al.        Expires February 12, 2018               [Page 7]

Internet-Draft              term-attestation                 August 2017


      [NIST SP-800-63-3] defines an Identity as "an attribute or set of
      attributes that uniquely describe a subject within a given
      context."

      The definition of Singular Identity in [RFC4949] is difficult to
      apply in the context of attestation as it is limited to entities
      that are persons or processes.  The definition of Identity in the
      NIST's Digital Identity Guidelines is also difficult to apply in
      the context of attestation as it is limited to uniquely
      identifiable subjects and does not allow for a Group Identities.
      In the context of this reference terminology the limitation
      imposed by both standard references are remediated via the
      definition of Attestation Identity.

   Attestation Identity:  The collective aspect of a set of attribute
      value pairs (i.e., a set of characteristics), by which a subject
      or a set of subjects is recognizable or known in a given scope.

   Subject:  [NIST SP-800-63-3] defines a Subject as "a person,
      organization, device, hardware, network, software, or service."
      In the scope of attestation terminology, the definition of Subject
      excludes Person and Organization from the definition.  The most
      common Subjects in respect to attestation are Computing Contexts
      or composite System Entities.

5.  Types of Root of Trust (ROT)

   Root of Trust:  The Trusted Computing Group defines ROT as "a
      component that performs one or more security-specific functions,
      such as measurement, storage, reporting, verification, and/or
      update.  It is trusted always to behave in the expected manner,
      because its misbehavior cannot be detected (such as by
      measurement) under normal operation."

   In general there are two types of a ROT:

   o  Hardware ROT, and

   o  Virtual ROT.

   Hardware Root of Trust:  define here

   Virtual Root of Trust:  A ROT that requires a parent ROT, to which it
      is cryptographically bound to.  The parent ROT can either be a
      Hardware ROT or a Virtual ROT.  I.e. a virtual ROT can create
      evidence about the integrity of the Computing Context it is an
      atomic component of and it can create evidence about its
      cryptographic binding to its parent ROT.



Birkholz, et al.        Expires February 12, 2018               [Page 8]

Internet-Draft              term-attestation                 August 2017


6.  Nested Computing Contexts

   Hierarchically nested System Entities range from composing a physical
   (tangible) composite device to composing a Physical System Entity

   ntially take on the

   roles of Attestee or Verifier.  Consequently, nested System Entities
   can be Computing Contexts.  The Root System Entity that provides the
   basis for the

   Physical System Entity:  A System Entity that can potentially contain
      a hardware ROT.

   Logical System Entity:  A System Entity that cannot contain a
      hardware ROT, but can potentially contain a virtual ROT.

   Root System Entity:  A Physical System Entity that constitutes the
      root of nested Physical System Entities and/or Logical System
      Entities.

   Deep Attestation:  An attestation activity that supports the use of
      virtual ROT in nested virtual Computing Contexts.  Deep
      Attestation always requires a

7.  Freshness Types

   Fresh:  [RFC4949] defines Fresh as "recently generated; not replayed
      from some earlier interaction of the protocol.

8.  Attestation Workflow

   This section introduces terms and definitions that are required to
   illustrate the scope and the granularity of attestation workflows in
   the context of security automation.  Terms defined in the following
   sections will be based on this workflow-related definitions.

   In general, attestation is an iterative procedure that is conducted
   over and over again in a computing context under specific conditions.
   It is neither a generic set of actions nor simply a task, because the
   actual actions to be undertaken in order to conduct an attestation
   procedure can vary significantly depending on the protocols employed
   and types of computing contexts involved.

   Activity:  The condition in which things are happening or being done.
      In the scope of attestation, an activity is a sequence of actions
      that is intended to produce a specifically defined result.  The
      actual composition of actions can vary, depending on the



Birkholz, et al.        Expires February 12, 2018               [Page 9]

Internet-Draft              term-attestation                 August 2017


      characteristics of the computing context they are conducted by/in
      and the protocols used.  A single activity provides only a minimal
      required amount of semantic context, e.g. by the activity's
      requirements imposed on the computing context, or via set of
      actions it is composed of.  Example: The conveyance of
      cryptographic evidence or the acquisition of a trusted time stamp
      token are activities.

   Task:  A piece of work to be done or undertaken.  In the scope of
      attestation, a task is an activity to be conducted.  Example: A
      Verifier can be tasked with the appraisal of evidence originating
      from a specific type of computing contexts.

   Action:  The accomplishment of a thing usually over a period of time,
      in stages, or with the possibility of repetition.  In the scope of
      attestation, an action is the execution of an operation or
      function in the scope of an activity conducted by a single
      computing context.  A single action provides no semantic context
      by itself, although it can limit potential semantic contexts of
      attestation procedures to a smaller subset.  Example: Signing an
      existing public key via a specific openssl library, transmitting
      data, or receiving data are actions.

   Procedure:  A series of actions that are done in a certain way or
      order.  In the scope of attestation, a procedure is a composition
      of activities (sequences of actions) that is intended to create a
      well specified result with a well established semantic context.
      Example: The activities of attestation, conveyance and
      verification compose a remote attestation procedure.

9.  Reference Use Cases

   This document provides NNN prominent examples of use cases
   attestation procedures are intended to address:

   o  Verification of the Source Integrity of a Computing Context via
      Data Integrity Proofing of installed software instances that are
      executed, and

   o  Verification of the Identity Proofing of a Computing Context.

   The use case summary highlighted above is based in the following
   terms defined in RFC4949 and complementary sources of terminology:

   Assurance:  An attribute of an information system that provides
      grounds for having confidence that the system operates such that
      the system's security policy is enforced [RFC4949] (see Trusted
      System below).



Birkholz, et al.        Expires February 12, 2018              [Page 10]

Internet-Draft              term-attestation                 August 2017


      In common criteria, assurance is the basis for the metric level of
      assurance, which represents the "confidence that a system's
      principal security features are reliably implemented".

      The NIST Handbook [get ref from 4949] notes that the levels of
      assurance defined in Common Criteria represent "a degree of
      confidence, not a true measure of how secure the system actually
      is.  This distinction is necessary because it is extremely
      difficult-and in many cases, virtually impossible-to know exactly
      how secure a system is."

      Historically, assurance was well-defined in the Orange Book
      [http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/history/dod85.pdf] as
      "guaranteeing or providing confidence that the security policy has
      been implemented correctly and that the protection-relevant
      elements of the system do, indeed, accurately mediate and enforce
      the intent of that policy.  By extension, assurance must include a
      guarantee that the trusted portion of the system works only as
      intended."

   Confidence:  The definition of correctness integrity in [RFC4949]
      notes that "source integrity refers to confidence in data values".
      Hence, confidence in an attestation procedure is referring to the
      degree of trustworthiness of an attestation activity that produces
      evidence (attestee), of an conveyance activity that transfers
      evidence (interconnect), and of a verification activity that
      appraises evidence (verifier), in respect to correctness
      integrity.

   Identity Proofing:  A process that vets and verifies the information
      that is used to establish the identity of a system entity.

   Source Integrity:  The property that data is trustworthy (i.e.,
      worthy of reliance or trust), based on the trustworthiness of its
      sources and the trustworthiness of any procedures used for
      handling data in the system.

   Data Integrity:  (a) The property that data has not been changed,
      destroyed, or lost in an unauthorized or accidental manner.  (See:
      data integrity service.  Compare: correctness integrity, source
      integrity.)

      (b) The property that information has not been modified or
      destroyed in an unauthorized manner.

   Correctness:  The property of a system that is guaranteed as the
      result of formal verification activities.




Birkholz, et al.        Expires February 12, 2018              [Page 11]

Internet-Draft              term-attestation                 August 2017


   Correctness Integrity:  The property that the information represented
      by data is accurate and consistent.

   Verification:  (a) The process of examining information to establish
      the truth of a claimed fact or value.

      (b) The process of comparing two levels of system specification
      for proper correspondence, such as comparing a security model with
      a top-level specification, a top-level specification with source
      code, or source code with object code.

9.1.  The Lying Endpoint Problem

   A very prominent goal of attestation procedures - and therefore a
   suitable example used as reference in this document - is to address
   the "lying endpoint problem".

   Information created, relayed, or, in essence, emitted by a computing
   context does not have to be correct.  There can be multiple reasons
   why that is the case and the "lying endpoint problem" represents a
   scenario, in which the reason is the compromization of computing
   contexts with malicious intend.  A compromised computing context
   could try to "pretend" to be integer, while actually feeding
   manipulated information into a security domain, therefore
   compromising the effectiveness of automated security functions.
   Attestation - and remote attestation procedures specifically - is an
   approach intended to identify compromised software instances in
   computing contexts.

   Per definition, a "lying endpoint" cannot be "trusted system".

   Trusted System:  A system that operates as expected, according to
      design and policy, doing what is required - despite environmental
      disruption, human user and operator errors, and attacks by hostile
      parties - and not doing other things.

   Remote attestation procedures are intended to enable the consumer of
   information emitted by an computing context to assess the validity
   and integrity of the information transferred.  The approach is based
   on the assumption that if evidence can be provided in order to prove
   the integrity of every software instance installed involved in the
   activity of creating the emitted information in question, the emitted
   information can be considered valid and integer.

   In contrast, such evidence has to be impossible to create if the
   software instances used in a computing context are compromised.
   Attestation activities that are intended to create this evidence




Birkholz, et al.        Expires February 12, 2018              [Page 12]

Internet-Draft              term-attestation                 August 2017


   therefore also to also provide guarantees about the validity of the
   evidence they can create.

9.2.  Who am I a talking to?

   [working title, write up use case here, ref teep requirements]

10.  Trustworthiness

   A "lying endpoint" is not trustworthy.

   Trusted System:  A system that operates as expected, according to
      design and policy, doing what is required - despite environmental
      disruption, human user and operator errors, and attacks by hostile
      parties - and not doing other things.

   Trustworthy:  pull in text here

11.  Remote Attestation

   Attestation:  An object integrity authentication facilitated via the
      creation of a claim about the properties of an attestee, such that
      the claim can be used as evidence.

   Conveyance:  The transfer of evidence from the attestee to the
      verifier.

   Verification:  The appraisal of evidence by evaluating it against
      declarative guidance.

   Remote Attestation:  A procedure composed of the activities
      attestation, conveyance and verification.

11.1.  Building Block Terms

   [working title, pulled from various sources, vital]

   Attestation Identity Key (AIK):  A special purpose signature
      (therefore asymmetric) key that supports identity related
      operations.  The private portion of the key pair is maintained
      confidential to the computing context via appropriate measures
      (that have a direct impact on the level of confidence).  The
      public portion of the key pair may be included in AIK credentials
      that provide claims about the characteristics of a Computing
      Context.






Birkholz, et al.        Expires February 12, 2018              [Page 13]

Internet-Draft              term-attestation                 August 2017


   Claim:  A piece of information asserted about a Subject.  A claim is
      represented as a name/value pair consisting of a Claim Name and a
      Claim Value [RFC7519]

      In the context of SACM, a claim is also specialized as an
      attribute/value pair that is intended to be related to a statement
      [I-D.ietf-sacm-terminology].

   Computing Context Characteristics:  The composition, configuration
      and state of a computing context.

   Evidence:  A trustworthy set of claims about an computing context's
      characteristics.

   Identity:  A set of claims that is intended to be related to an
      entity. [merge with RFC4949 defintion above]

   Integrity Measurements:  Metrics of computing context characteristics
      (i.e. composition, configuration and state) that affect the
      confidence in the trustworthiness of a computing context.  Digests
      of integrity measurements can be stored in shielded locations
      (e.g. a PCR of a TPM).

   Reference Integrity Measurements:  Signed measurements about a
      computing context's characteristics that are provided by a vendor
      or manufacturer and are intended to be used as declarative
      guidannce [I-D.ietf-sacm-terminology] (e.g. a signed CoSWID).

   Trustworthiness:  The qualities of computing context characteristics
      that guarantee a specific behavior specified by declarative
      guidance.  Trustworthiness is not an absolute property but defined
      with respect to a computing context, corresponding declarative
      guidance, and has a scope of confidence.  A trusted system is
      trustworthy. [refactor defintion with RFC4949 terms]

      Trustworthy Computing Context: a computing context that guarantees
      trustworthy behavior and/or composition (with respect to certain
      declarative guidance and a scope of confideence).  A trustworthy
      computing context is a trusted system.

      Trustworthy Statement: evidence that trustworthy conveyed by a
      computing context that is not necessarily trustworthy. [update
      with tamper related terms]








Birkholz, et al.        Expires February 12, 2018              [Page 14]

Internet-Draft              term-attestation                 August 2017


12.  IANA considerations

   This document will include requests to IANA:

   o  first item

   o  second item

13.  Security Considerations

   There are always some.

14.  Acknowledgements

   Maybe.

15.  Change Log

   No changes yet.

16.  References

16.1.  Normative References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <http://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2119>.

   [RFC4949]  Shirey, R., "Internet Security Glossary, Version 2",
              FYI 36, RFC 4949, DOI 10.17487/RFC4949, August 2007,
              <http://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4949>.

16.2.  Informative References

   [I-D.ietf-sacm-terminology]
              Birkholz, H., Lu, J., Strassner, J., and N. Cam-Winget,
              "Security Automation and Continuous Monitoring (SACM)
              Terminology", draft-ietf-sacm-terminology-13 (work in
              progress), July 2017.

   [RFC7519]  Jones, M., Bradley, J., and N. Sakimura, "JSON Web Token
              (JWT)", RFC 7519, DOI 10.17487/RFC7519, May 2015,
              <http://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7519>.







Birkholz, et al.        Expires February 12, 2018              [Page 15]

Internet-Draft              term-attestation                 August 2017


Authors' Addresses

   Henk Birkholz
   Fraunhofer SIT
   Rheinstrasse 75
   Darmstadt  64295
   Germany

   Email: henk.birkholz@sit.fraunhofer.de


   Monty Wiseman
   GE Global Research
   USA

   Email: monty.wiseman@ge.com


   Hannes Tschofenig
   ARM Ltd.
   110 Fulbourn Rd
   Cambridge  CB1 9NJ
   UK

   Email: hannes.tschofenig@gmx.net


























Birkholz, et al.        Expires February 12, 2018              [Page 16]
